{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f30\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f31\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f34\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f35\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f36\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f37\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title My goal at this point is not to come up with a solution, but only to make sure that a solution is possible}{\author J. Perkins}{\operator J. Perkins}{\creatim\yr2006\mo2\dy14\hr8\min25}{\revtim\yr2006\mo2\dy14\hr9\min8}{\version4}{\edmins31}
{\nofpages2}{\nofwords455}{\nofchars2597}{\*\company AstraZeneca}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
My goal at this point is not to come up with a solution, but only to make sure that a solution is possible. I want to make sure that my API is not preventing multi-core support.
\par 
\par The dedicated physics processor (Aegia) appears to be a failed experiment. As
 processor roadmaps include more and more cores, it makes less sense to shove all of the scene data over a narrow pipe to a dedicated card. With that in mind, the Havok HydraCore approach seems more sensible. I think if I allowed the number of parallel wo
rk units to be specified, I could them process several islands in parallel. 
\par 
\par However, that doesn\rquote t address the desire to run the physics in parallel with the rendering. This is a bigger, more difficult, issue I think. It requires a mutable state for dynami
cs and game logic, and then a static state for rendering. But only for behaviors that support rendering: meshes, materials, poses. That is, I don\rquote 
t want to be writing to a pose when the graphics are reading from it. It sounds like I actually want to reverse the situation: instead of trying to run dynamics in a separate thread, run }{\i rendering}{
 in a separate thread, and then sequence collision detection, dynamics, game logic, and even user input, in one or more threads in parallel. That would seem to be an easier approach.
\par 
\par Locking then would be done on the scene. 
\par 
\par   OnTick()
\par      Scene.Lock(ReadWrite)
\par      StepLogic()
\par      TestCollisions()
\par      StepDynamics()
\par      Scene.Unlock()
\par 
\par Each step in the tick sequence could also be spun off to multiple threads. For example, the dynamics could processes islands in parallel.
\par 
\par   OnRender()
\par      Scene.Lock(ReadOnly)
\par      QuerySceneForRenderingObjects()
\par      Scene.Unlock()
\par      RenderQueuedObjects()
\par 
\par Rendering objects with mutable state (materials) will need to double-buffer,  along with pose information. But all of that can be hidden behind the API.
\par 
\par   MainSimLoop()
\par      Update(elapsed)
\par      StepDynamics(elapsed)
\par      Render()
\par 
\par StepDynamics() runs at a fixed step size and may iterate a couple of times per frame. It is responsible for calling the collision detection too. Update() is the per frame update; there will also be a FixedUpdate() called by the dynamics. 
\par 
\par It appears that 
I can have the same simulation loop on both single and multicore systems. Under the hood, each subsystem can spin off threads as needed. So the call to Render() might actually do all of the work, or it might just collect the necessary objects and then ret
u
rn while a second thread takes care of getting the data to the card. If Render() is called again before the previous frame is complete, it can just return immediately, or even start another pass, depending on how it is written. On a dual-core system, the 
rendering would be run on one core and everything else on the other. On a quad-core system, the rendering would run on one core, and the other three would be dynamically allocated by the other subsystems.
\par 
\par The framework core creates a thread for each core in the system and provides an API for queueing work units. The rendering subsystem reserves one core for itself. The work queue API then hands off work items to the remaining cores.
 This should allow multithreading to be introduced gradually and behind the scenes.
\par 
\par 
\par      
\par }}