{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f31\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f32\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f34\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f35\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f36\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f37\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f38\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title I\'92d like to design collaborative editing in right from the start}{\author J. Perkins}
{\operator J. Perkins}{\creatim\yr2006\mo4\dy4\hr14\min2}{\revtim\yr2006\mo4\dy4\hr16\min2}{\version9}{\edmins48}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords575}{\nofchars3280}{\*\company AstraZeneca}{\nofcharsws4028}{\vern8229}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
I am thinking about too many things at once right now. I need to tighten my focus to a single, achievable goal. The problem I am trying to solve is the addition of a new actor into the scene from the editor. The editor calls the NewActor method on a contr
oller. This is where things get fuzzy.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par If remote editing is allowed, a NewActorRequestMessage might be sent. Otherwise, the controller could just call `new Actor()`.
\par 
\par Assume that once I have the new actor I can figure out how to get it into the UI.
\par 
\par If I k
eep editing to local files I can probably leverage existing tools to do checkin/out and revision control. I could put all of the files into a Subversion repository, for instance. Then the editor will only have to know how to talk to these tools. This seem
s a more achievable goal.
\par 
\par Okay, so say that I am only going to allow local editing, and that I will figure out how to communicate assets to a central source later on. That means that I have a local project directory that I can open.
\par 
\par How do I handle large 
maps? They need to be broken into smaller pieces, okay. How are these reassembled into a whole? I would need a streamer to pull things in as needed. The streamer would need an index so it knew what regions were available, what they were called, and when t
hey should be loaded (maybe just an AABB). 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {
\par I\rquote d like to design collaborative editing in right from the start. That means that a remote scene can be opened, with user authentication. So I need
 a connection object sitting between the business objects and the actual data source. In theory, editing operations could be treated as just another multiplayer operation and transmitted with messages. This has the added benefit that the same server could
 support editing and runtime operations. I like this approach; it doesn\rquote t make sense to have two sets of remoting architectures.
\par 
\par So in that case, my editor controller would transmit a NewActorRequest, and at some point receive a message back telling it to add an actor to a particular parent. The connection would have to be authenticated, and the server could do whatever logging or 
revision control necessary at its end. 
\par 
\par What about assets? On the localhost it is easy enough to save an asset to a particular directory and have it automatically imported. When working against a remote server things aren\rquote t so simple. I guess I would have 
to put an interface around it. But this means push all asset changes to the server in order to test gameplay. Is that really the right way to work? This is an important question, because if it doesn\rquote 
t make sense to do collaborative editing I can remove that whole concept from the code.
\par 
\par I do want to shorten the edit-test cycle as much as possible, so I would like to be able to save an asset and immediately run the simulation. I guess I can run the simulation locally, and keep assets locally, while still tra
nsmitting scene changes to the server. So if you want to edit an asset you can check it out, do what you want with it, and then check it back in. The process around that can be defined later, but that\rquote s a pretty good start.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {Revision Control
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\par There are two kinds of changes that can be made. The first is a change that is applied to the structure or starting condition of the simulation,  which I am calling }{\i basis changes}{
. These are changes that would be stored in the game file and shipped to a new user. }{\i Transient changes}{
 are changes to properties that reflect the evolving runtime state. These may be serialized (thing MMORPG) but if I new simulation was started these changes would not be applied. 
\par 
\par I need to come up with a way to provide revision control for basis changes, especially if I allow open online updating, like the Kerouac project. I think that objects and assets need to be \'93checked out\'94
 prior to modification, and then checked back in when done. These commits can then be versioned (somehow). That opens the issue of breaking locks which will need to be addressed by policy.
\par 
\par 
\par }}