{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title The problem: event handlers in framework classes are holding strong references to scene objects, preventing them from being ga}{\author J. Perkins}{\operator J. Perkins}{\creatim\yr2006\mo3\dy29\hr10\min32}{\revtim\yr2006\mo3\dy29\hr10\min55}
{\version3}{\edmins23}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\*\company AstraZeneca}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern8229}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800
\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale75\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
The problem: event handlers in framework classes are holding strong references to scene objects, preventing them from being garbage collected.
\par 
\par Framework.FixedUpdate -> MyBehavior.OnFixedUpdate
\par 
\par This event is explicitly registered with the Framework via a method to be determined.
\par 
\par One solution is to require explicit registration and deregistration of all objects. I could probably automate a lot of this in behaviors by having the owning actor automatically wire the events via reflection. If the behavior is r
emoved or the actor disposed the event can be dropped. If I decide to take this approach I should consider adding FixedUpdate and FrameUpdate messages and fire through those in order to keep everything consistent.
\par 
\par I have a similar problems within the acto
rs themselves. At some point, I will have a behavior that needs to watch a different actor. If it only needs to monitor it, I could provide an ActorReference or similar that encapsulates a weak reference. Or, even easier, I could just let the behavior sto
re a strong reference and provide an IsAlive() method.
\par 
\par However, I can see where it might be very useful to listen for messages being received by a different actor. In this case, the target actor is handed a very specific delegate. This seems to be the one case that can\rquote t be easily worked around.
\par 
\par Actor -> ExternalBehavior.OnActorSomething()
\par 
\par Because this is a much more specific case, I might be able to get away with keeping a WeakReference and a MethodInfo and calling Invoke(). Much, much slower than a delegate but also shouldn\rquote 
t happen much. But I am going to defer this for now and see when the problem actually arises, at which point I might be able to come with a better solution.
\par 
\par 
\par }}